# Pykemon
A reimagining of Gen 1/Gen 2 Pokemon written entirely in Python

## Current Features:
At this stage of development, Pykemon is a collection of building blocks which haven't been assembled yet. What I have accomplished for far includes:

### Pokemon class:
#### Fully implemented:
* A Pokemon object can be created like "var = Pokemon('Pokemon Name')"
* The Pokemon class then checks the provided name against the PokemonDB.json file for all relevant data used within rest of the class
* Gender is assigned based on Gen 2 gender ratio
* Pokedex number refers to the National number
* All base stats are taken from PokemonDB.json and are pulled from Gen 1/Gen 2
* IVs are HP, Attack, Defense, Speed, Special Attack, Special Defense
* IVs (excluding HP) are generated by randomly assigning value between 0 - 15
* HP IV is calculated by formula used in Gen 1
* Shiny status is determined by Gen 2 formula. IVs must match specific criteria
* EVs were not introduced in Gen 1, instead Gen 1 used a format called Stat Exp. Each time a pokemon won in a battle, the base stats of the loser were added to the winner's stat exp. The stat exp determines the various levels of Pokemon stats
* Pokemon gain levels based on 6 different rates: erratic, fast, medium fast, medium slow, slow, and fluctuating. I used the official Gen 1 formulas to determine a Pokemon's level rather than a rainbow table in order to remove level 100 cap limit
* Pokemon current stats are calculated by following the official Gen 1 formula, which takes into account the current Pokemon's base stats, current level, and stat exp
* Pokemon current max HP is calculated with a slightly different formula, but otherwise uses the same data
* The appropriate sprites used in a battle (front and back, shiny and normal)
* If a Pokemon is wild, it's move list will contain the 4 most recent moves it is able to learn.
* A pokemon can level up which is then manually recalculate all current stats by taking into account the new level

#### Partially Implemented:
* A Pokemon can evolve by calling the evolve function. This will check the 'Evolves-Into' key within the PokemonDB.json file. Using this value, it changes the name of the Pokemon, then recalculates all base stats and current stats.

#### Not Implemented:
* Status effects
* Held items
* Move implementation

### Move Class:
#### Fully Implemented:
* Move will check types and return a modifier to be used in damage calculation
* STAB (Same Type Attack Bonus) is determined if Pokemon uses a move that matches it's type
* Damage is calculated by first determining if a move is special or physical. This will determine which Pokemon stats to reference. Then it follows the standard formula for damage calculation.

#### Partially Implemented:
* Status Effects (will need major overhaul later on)
* Use a move (essentially just applies damage)
* Critial hit chance - currently based on attacker speed, but will use a percentage based on individual moves in the future

#### Not Implemented:
* Proper status effects
* Literally anything else

### Main Game:

### Battle State:
#### Fully Implemented:
* Proper sprites are used for front and back
* Pokemon names, level, current HP and max HP properly display
* HP bars display proper colour and size based on remaining HP
* XP bar works correctly and displays how far into current level a Pokemon is

#### Partially Implemented:
* Gender is displayed with m or f. Will use proper symbols in the future

#### Not Implemented:
* Any interaction with menus: choosing move, changing pokemon, opening bag, running away
* 
